hey this is pressure Walker marching is
a gardener in math land there are a
hundred poisonous flowers in his garden
that he wants to destroy on their own
the flowers do not change a number
Martin has a spray to kill the poisonous
flowers but the spray works only in a
specific way the spray has settings to
destroy exactly three five 14 or 17
flowers instantly the spray only works
if there are at least as many flowers as
the setting if there are two flowers for
example the setting for three does
nothing
furthermore if at least one flower
survives after he sprays them the
flowers instantly grow back based on how
many died if three died then twelve grow
back if five died then 17 grow back
fourteen die then a grow back and if
seventeen die true grow back if the
number of flowers is ever exactly zero
then the flowers never grow back can
Martin ever get rid of the poisonous
flowers in his garden you can assume he
has an unlimited amount of spray can you
figure it out give this problem a try
and when you're ready keep watching the
video for the solution
so from the initial hundred flowers you
can try experimenting the different
combinations of the flowers you can
spray and keep track of how many flowers
remain but no matter how you try you're
not going to be able to get rid of all
the flowers we can understand why by
thinking forward and reasoning backwards
so in order for Martin to succeed there
needs to be three five 14 or 17 flowers
just before the last time he sprays the
flowers this means from the initial
hundred flowers Martin has to decrease
the number of flowers by exactly ninety
seven ninety five eighty six or
eighty-three flowers let's consider the
net change after each setting of the
spray if you use a setting of three he
killed three but twelve grow back which
leaves two plus nine flowers for the
setting of five there is a net change of
plus twelve flowers for fourteen
settings he decreases the number of
flowers by six and for the 70 setting he
decreases the number of flowers by
fifteen on each setting of the spray
Martin can only change the number of
flowers by plus nine plus 12 minus six
or minus fifteen and there's a pattern
to these numbers there are all multiples
of three things Martin only changes the
number of flowers by you multiple three
the number of flowers has to change by
3x for certain integer values of X now
since the numbers 97 95 86 and 83 are
not multiples of 3 that means martin is
not capable of decreasing the initial
number by exactly any of those numbers
therefore we can conclude Martin
never get rid of all of the poisonous
flowers did you figure it out thanks for
watching this video please subscribe to
my channel I make videos on math and
game theory you can catch around my blog
mind your decisions which you can follow
on Facebook Google+ and patreon you can
catch you on social media at pressure
Locker and if you like this video please
check out my book there are links in the
video description